# Introduction

Deer Portal is a multiplayer board game driven by the four classical
elements, designed for 0-4 players. The game takes place in an ancient
world where the Almighty Deer God protects all compassionate creatures.

## Game Objective

Transform yourself into a **Deer Lesser God** by reaching the **Hoof
Portal** and collecting the most diamonds.

## Game Philosophy

The game was inspired during a Buddhist journey through Japan,
specifically after visiting T≈çdai-ji temple in Nara. The mission is to
spread the word about the Deer through this strategic gameplay.

# Game Setup

## Classical Elements

The gameboard is divided into four areas, each controlled by one
classical element:

- [**Water**]{style="color: waterblue"} (Blue) - Represents flow,
  adaptation, and change

- [**Earth**]{style="color: earthgreen"} (Green) - Represents stability,
  growth, and foundation

- [**Fire**]{style="color: firered"} (Red) - Represents energy,
  transformation, and passion

- [**Air**]{style="color: airyellow"} (Yellow) - Represents freedom,
  intellect, and movement

## Players

Each of the four players is mentored by one classical element and can:

- Move around their designated board area

- Collect runes and diamonds

- Meditate to receive help from their patron element

- Reach the Deer Portal for transformation

Players can be controlled by humans or computers, allowing for various
gameplay configurations.

# Card System

The heart of Deer Portal's strategy lies in its sophisticated card
system. Each element maintains a deck of 32 cards that provide powerful
interactions between players.

## Card Distribution

::: center
       **Card Type**       **Quantity per Element**   **Total in Game**
  ----------------------- -------------------------- -------------------
        Stop Cards                    8                      32
       Remove Cards                   8                      32
       Diamond Cards                  8                      32
     Diamond x2 Cards                 8                      32
   **Total per Element**            **32**                 **128**
:::

## Card Activation Rules

1.  **Own Element Runes**: When landing on your own element's rune, the
    card is discarded and the next card is revealed

2.  **Other Element Runes**: When landing on another element's rune, the
    card effect executes against that element's area

3.  **Targeting Restriction**: You cannot use cards against your own
    element area

4.  **Deck Progression**: After each card use, the deck advances to the
    next card

5.  **Deck Exhaustion**: When a deck runs out, that element pile becomes
    inactive

# Card Types & Effects

## Stop Cards

**Primary Effect**: Freeze target player for one complete turn

**Mechanical Implementation**: `frozenLeft += 1`

**Strategic Use**:

- Disrupt leading players during critical moments

- Prevent opponents from reaching the portal

- Buy time to collect valuable resources

- Most effective during mid-to-late game phases

**Visual Design**: Each element's stop card features a distinctive
yellow prohibition symbol overlaid on the element's thematic background.

## Remove Cards

**Primary Effect**: Eliminate a random diamond or card from target
element area

**Mechanical Implementation**: Random selection and removal from target
area's resources

**Strategic Use**:

- Reduce opponent resource accumulation

- Eliminate high-value targets before opponents can collect them

- Tactical disruption of opponent strategies

- Most effective when target areas have valuable visible resources

**Visual Design**: Features a crossed-out diamond symbol on each
element's themed background, representing resource elimination.

## Diamond Cards

**Primary Effect**: Steal one diamond from target area + award 1 cash to
current player

**Mechanical Implementation**: `removeDiamond()` + `cash += 1`

**Strategic Use**:

- Direct resource acquisition from opponents

- Build economic advantage throughout the game

- Steady progression toward victory condition

- Effective throughout all game phases

**Visual Design**: Displays a single, prominently featured diamond on
each element's background.

## Diamond x2 Cards

**Primary Effect**: Steal two diamonds from target area + award 2 cash
to current player

**Mechanical Implementation**: `removeDiamond()` called twice +
`cash += 2`

**Strategic Use**:

- Maximum resource gain per single card activation

- Game-changing potential in close matches

- Priority target for strategic timing

- Most valuable card type in the deck

**Visual Design**: Features two diamonds prominently displayed, often
with enhanced visual effects representing their increased value.

# Element-Specific Visual Themes

## [Water Element Cards]{style="color: waterblue"}

Visual characteristics include flowing water textures, blue gradients,
and aquatic motifs that convey fluidity and adaptability.

## [Earth Element Cards]{style="color: earthgreen"}

Feature natural textures, green earth tones, and organic patterns
representing stability and growth.

## [Fire Element Cards]{style="color: firered"}

Incorporate flame effects, warm red colors, and dynamic energy patterns
symbolizing transformation and passion.

## [Air Element Cards]{style="color: airyellow"}

Display light, airy backgrounds with yellow/white color schemes and
flowing patterns representing freedom and movement.

# Advanced Strategy

## Card Priority System

1.  **Diamond x2 Cards** - Highest strategic value

2.  **Diamond Cards** - Reliable resource acquisition

3.  **Stop Cards** - Tactical disruption tool

4.  **Remove Cards** - Situational utility option

## Timing Strategies

- **Early Game**: Focus on diamond cards for resource building

- **Mid Game**: Deploy stop cards against leading players

- **Late Game**: Use remove cards to eliminate threats before portal
  entry

## Element Targeting

Consider these factors when choosing targets:

- Visible resource density in target areas

- Strategic position of controlling players

- Current game state and remaining turns

- Deck status of different elements

# Game Mechanics Integration

## Meditation System

Returning to your starting position with an exact dice roll triggers
meditation, which:

- Regenerates all diamonds and cards in your area

- Requires precise dice roll calculation

- Provides strategic reset opportunity

- Implemented via `game.boardDiamonds.reorder(game.turn)`

## Deck Exhaustion Effects

When element decks become empty:

- Deck marked as inactive: `cardsList[pileNumber].active = false`

- All remaining resources removed: `removeAllCardElement(pileNumber)`

- Element becomes strategically less valuable

- Affects long-term game balance

# Victory Conditions

## Primary Victory

The player with the most diamonds when all players reach the portal (or
deer mode ends) wins the game.

## Tiebreaker

In case of diamond count ties, victory goes to the player who reached
the portal first.

## Transformation

The winner transforms into a Deer God, while survivors become devoted
monks spreading the philosophy.

# Technical Implementation

## Asset Organization

Card images are systematically organized in `assets/img/cards/` using
the naming convention:

- `card-{element}-{type}.small.png` (game display)

- `card-{element}-{type}.png` (high resolution)

Where `{element}` = water, earth, fire, air and `{type}` = stop,
remove-card, diam, 2-diam.

## Core Implementation Files

- `src/card.h` - Card data structures and type definitions

- `src/cardsdeck.h/.cpp` - Deck management and rendering

- `src/cardslist.h/.cpp` - Card distribution and shuffling

- `src/command.cpp` - Card effect execution logic

- `src/textureholder.cpp` - Asset loading and management

# Conclusion

The Deer Portal card system provides deep strategic gameplay while
maintaining thematic coherence with the game's spiritual and elemental
foundations. Mastery of card timing, element targeting, and resource
management separates novice players from those worthy of transformation
into Deer Gods.

May your journey through the elements lead to enlightenment and victory
in the sacred realm of the Almighty Deer.
